# Logbook

## 07-09-26, Compiled more sources, continued notes, and worked on CPU implementation
This week I've worked on my list of goals from last week. Additionally, I worked on finding more citations for the different sections of my project, as I had only formally compiled a few sources. With those sources, I sorted each into categories of either FPGA, Monte Carlo, SR, and Bit Sweep, and I plan to review each section as I'm working on it. This week, I got a lot of work done for the draft f32 implementation and consequently finished reviewing the Monte Carlo section of sources and took short notes on each, which I plan to emulate for the other parts of my project.

In docs, I spent some time reviewing how AI is allowed to be used in SFS science fairs and found that AI is allowed to generate code as long as its labeled as such. Consequently, I made [prompts.md](./prompts.md) that outlines each prompt and corresponding output and AI model. My general goal with using AI is to use it on code that doesn't affect the core project and would otherwise waste time. For example, today I asked AI to write two Python functions, one for changing the format of a JSON file and the other for graphing from a .npy file.

Finally, I decided to make a [workbook.md](./workbook.md) that is similar to the logbook, however is updated more often. Generally there are a lot of things that I do that take say an hour or so, or theories / optimizations that I think of that don't fit into a weekly log, and I want to document them in some place.

## 07-02-26, Started notes and CPU implementation
This week, I've started work on the CPU implementation. I plan to go through and write a rough floating point version, then go back complete the bit width study. Along with that, I decided to reread the main sources and take notes to make sure I fully understand what is happening. I plan to do this along with implementation as to be able to apply what I'm learning as I use it. Currently, I've only finished the photon step size, however I plan to go through and review all the core processes in a similar way until I can piece together the entire algorithm in f32.

Next, I have three main goals I want to work on. First, as mentioned, I want to finish the f32 reference. Second, I want to research each piece as I implement it as well, making sure I fully understand how all the parts are derived. Finally, I want to finish the [design.md](./design.md) doc, as currently it's still a rough draft with unfinished parts, specifically the specifications of the memory cache system in URAM on the FPGA while also being messy.

## 06-24-26, Beginning research and design
In the past week, I've worked on the first parts of design and research. So far I've reviewed the foundational papers on both MCX and Stochastic rounding. Currently, I'm still working on following the leads from the MCX paper to learn more about the field and its foundations, along with its core processes.

Along with research, I've begun working on the hardware layout of an HLS implementation, where I've spent the majority of my time this week. I managed to connect the structure using streams that pass data around, different from a software lens of passing variables into functions and using returns values. Design is document in [design.md](./design.md).

## 06-17-26, Project start
Today I went through and formalized this project into this repository and plan to begin real work on science fair in the coming days. Along with that, I've also finalized my decision to use MCX as the Monte Carlo baseline. It features a simple double voxel setup to where it reads its information from a voxel grid and writes it out to a voxel grid, letting the core physics be simple compared to more analytical geometry. It also gives me a good production baseline to compare against, rather than one of my own unoptimized GPU implementations. This allows me to properly compare perf per watt without bias.

My plan for this project is to test my core hypothesis that the control granted over precision and memory by an FPGA allows for greater efficiency, causing FPGAs to have greater performance per watt than float heavy GPUs. In practice, I plan to do this through stochastic rounding. Stochastic rounding should let me change the precision of many of the core processes, even more importantly the precision of the output writes. Since the fluence values from MCX suffer from the issue of ultra tiny increment adds demanding high precision, stochastic rounding should allow low bit storage which helps bandwidth and DSP density. 

In the next few days, I plan to complete a more full literature review of particle Monte Carlo simulations, as currently my understanding is limited to just what equations produce rather than their justifications. I also need to review the literature around stochastic rounding, as it appears to be a relatively new technique at least in its recent adoption. After that, I would like to start on the CPU implementation. I plan to write the implementation in Rust as I know its tooling the best and its speed allows me to run larger calculations, along with its multithreading libraries like rayon helping with that.